## MultipleRouteConfig
In recent years the Internet has been transformed from a special purpose network to a ubiquitous platform for a wide range of everyday communication services. The demands on Internet reliability and availability have increased accordingly. A disruption of a link in
central parts of a network has the potential to affect hundreds of thousands of phone conversations or TCP connections, with obvious adverse effects. The ability to recover from failures has always been a central design goal in the Internet. Much effort has been devoted in optimizing the different steps of the convergence of IP routing, i.e., detection, dissemination of information and shortest path calculation, but the convergence time is still too large for applications with real time demands. A key problem is that since most network failures are short lived, too rapid triggering of the re-convergence process can cause route flapping and increased network instability.

So, in order to avoid these types of problems, MRC can be implemented. MRC stands for Multiple Routing Configurations. The basic idea behind this is avoiding long term waiting for the nodes in the network and also to avoid the loss of packets in the network due to short term failures. This MRC algorithm works only for pure connection-less network and assumes for pure destination based hop-to-hop forwarding. MRC approach is threefold. First, we create a set of backup configurations, so that every network component is excluded from packet forwarding in one configuration. Second, for each configuration, a standard routing algorithm like OSPF is used to calculate configuration specific shortest paths and create forwarding tables in each router, based on the configurations. The use of a standard routing algorithm guarantees loop-free forwarding within one configuration. Finally, we design a forwarding process that takes advantage of the backup configurations to provide fast recovery from a component failure.

Using a standard shortest path calculation, each router creates a set of configuration-specific forwarding tables. For simplicity, we say that a packet is forwarded according to a configuration, meaning that it is forwarded using the forwarding table calculated based on that configuration. When a router detects that a neighbour can no longer be reached through one of its interfaces, it does not immediately inform the rest of the network about the connectivity failure. Instead, packets that would normally be forwarded over the failed interface are marked as belonging to a backup configuration, and forwarded on an alternative interface towards its destination.

When a packet reaches a point of failure, the node adjacent to the failure, called the detecting node, is responsible for finding a backup configuration where the failed component is isolated. The detecting node marks the packet as belonging to this configuration,
and forwards the packet. From the packet marking, all transit routers identify the packet with the selected backup configuration, and forwards it to the departing node avoiding the failed component.
